# Getting Started

This document attempts to explain how to create an FMI vendor repository from
scratch.

## Vendor Repository

We will assume that you have a vendor repository on GitHub already. If not,
contact the FMI design group to establish a repository and write permissions to
that repository.

### The `vendor` file

Each vendor repository should contain exactly one vendor file. Let's assume
that your company is called 'acme'. You would then create a file named
`acme.vendor` in the root directory of your vendor repository. Such a file
should be filled in as follows:

```toml
vendorId=acme
displayName=ACME Modeling and Simulation
href=https://acme-modeling.org
```

The `vendorId` field should be unique. You can choose any identifier you want,
but check it against the [registry of existing vendor
ids](https://github.com/modelica/fmi-crosscheck-tools/blob/master/build-server/vendors.json)
to ensure it is unique.

The `displayName` is whatever name you want to be shown for your company or
organization. Finally, the `href` field should point to the web page you would
like interested parties to visit.

### Adding `tool` files

For each tool you want included on the [FMI web site](https://fmi-standard.org),
you should create a file with a `.tool` suffix. Let's assume we have a tool
called AcmeSim. Then we would create a file named `AcmeSim.tool` that looked
like this:

```toml
displayName=ACME Simulator
homepage=https://acme-modeling.org/acme-simulator
note=AcmeSim is far and away the least used FMI simulation tool on the planet
email=info@acme-modeling.org
vendorId=acme

[FMI1_0]
import=A
export=A
slave=A
master=A

[FMI2_0]
import=P
export=P
slave=P
master=P
```

Again, `displayName` is the description you want associated with your tool. The
`homepage` field should be a link to a page specifically about your tool. The
`note` field is a description of your tool. The `email` field should be the
email address that interested parties should direct inquiries to. Finally, the
`vendorId` **must match the `vendorId` used in your `.vendor` file**.

The remain information in the file is meant to indicate compliance with the
various versions of FMI (FMI 1.0 and FMI 2.0, respectively...in the example code
above).

Obviously, the different fields under each header correspond to model exchange
import/export as well as co-simulation slave/master capability. If you are
providing cross-check data for your tool, **you don't need to worry
about these fields**. They are only used as a **fallback** if there are no
cross-check results provided. A value of `A` means "Available, but no
cross-check data provided" and a value of `P` means "Planned".

### Test FMUs

In order for any FMUs that your tool exports to be cross-checked for compliance
by other tools, you need to provide those FMUs in the `TEST_FMUs` directory.
Each FMU should be contained in a directory that conforms to the following
template:

```
./Test_FMUs/<FMI_Version>/<FMI_Variant>/<FMI_Platform>/<Tool_Name>/<Tool_Version>/<FMU_Name>/<FMU_Name>.fmu
```

The values of the various directories should obey the following restrictions:

*   `FMI_Version` must be either `FMI_1.0` or `FMI_2.0`
*   `FMI_Variant` must be either `CoSimulation` or `ModelExchange`
*   `FMI_Platform` must be one of:
    *   `win32` (Windows 32-bit)
    *   `win64` (Windows 64-bit)
    *   `linux32` (Linux 32-bit)
    *   `linux64` (Linux 64-bit)
    *   `darwin64` (MacOS 64-bit)
    *   `c-code` (Source code)
*   `Tool_Name` **must** match the base name of the `.tool` file.
*   `Tool_Version` is a string chosen by the vendor to describe which version of
    the tool the FMU data was generated by.
*   `FMU_Name` an identifier used to identify the FMU

### Cross-Check Results

What cross check data needs to be supplied is dictated by the FMI cross-check
rules. The data itself, much like the test FMUs, should be placed in a
directory that is named according to the following template:

```
./CrossCheck_Results/<FMI_Version>/<FMI_Variant>/<FMI_Platform>/<Tool_Name>/<Tool_Version>/<Export_Tool>/<Export_Version>/<FMU_Name>
```

In this template, the values of `FMI_Version`, `FMI_Variant` and `FMI_Platform`,
`Tool_Name` and `Tool_Version` should follow the same restrictions as outlined
in the test FMU template in the previous section. The `Export_Tool` identifier
is the identifier of the tool that exported the FMU being checked and it should, like
`Tool_Name`, use an identifier that has an associated `.tool` file
associated with it somewhere. The `Export_Version`, like `Tool_Version`, is a
string chosen by the vendor of the exporting tool.
